=======================================================================================================================================
--                                                                                                                                   --
--                                          Tyler Grenier 10/25/23 10:45 PM                                                          --
--                                                                                                                                   --
--                                  Subject Of File: Intro To Operating Systems\OS                                                   --
--                                                                                                                                   --
=======================================================================================================================================


    What is an Operating System?
An operating system (OS) is system software that serves as an intermediary between computer hardware and user applications. It manages
and controls the hardware resources of a computer system, provides essential services for software applications, and acts as a bridge
between the user and the computer's underlying hardware. Here is a more detailed definition of an operating system:

An operating system is a software program or set of programs that:

1. **Manages Hardware Resources:** It abstracts and manages various hardware components, including the central processing unit (CPU),
memory, storage devices, input/output (I/O) devices, and more. The OS ensures that these resources are used efficiently and provides a
consistent interface to interact with them.

2. **Provides a User Interface:** It offers a user interface, which can be in the form of a command-line interface (CLI), a graphical
user interface (GUI), or both, through which users can interact with the computer and its applications.

3. **Schedules Processes:** The OS is responsible for scheduling and managing processes and threads, allowing multiple tasks to run
concurrently on a single processor or across multiple processors in a multi-core system.

4. **Manages File Systems:** It controls and organizes data storage through file systems, allowing for the creation, reading, writing,
and deletion of files and directories.

5. **Handles Input and Output:** The OS facilitates communication between software applications and hardware devices, enabling input
from devices like keyboards and mice and output to displays, printers, and other peripherals.

6. **Provides Security and Access Control:** It enforces security measures, including user authentication, authorization, and access
control to protect data and resources.

7. **Handles Error Handling and Recovery:** The OS can detect and respond to hardware and software errors, helping to prevent system
crashes and data loss.

8. **Manages Memory:** It allocates and manages memory resources, ensuring that applications have access to the necessary memory and
protecting processes from interfering with each other.

9. **Network and Communication Support:** In networked environments, the OS may provide network communication capabilities, enabling
devices to connect and communicate with each other over local or wide area networks.


10. **Supports Peripheral Devices:** It provides drivers and interfaces for hardware peripherals, allowing software applications to
interact with devices such as printers, scanners, and cameras.

Operating systems are crucial components of modern computing, as they enable the execution of software, provide a user-friendly
interface, and ensure efficient utilization of hardware resources. Different operating systems exist for various types of devices,
including personal computers, servers, mobile devices, and embedded systems, each tailored to meet the specific requirements and
constraints of the target platform.


What Are Real World Operating Systems We Use?

    Operating Systems are used and installed on every computer system today The 2 That everyone knows is, 1 Windows, 2 MacOS. In
addition to these Operating Systems There Will be several more Files within this Folder To Explain Each of these Operating Systems In
depth and talk about what they are used For includeing, Linux , Unix, BSD, XBOX OS (its basically a striped down version of windows
again there will be a wholle section teaching about this), PlayStation OS , etc...
